The heart disease (HD) has been considered as one of the complex and life deadliest human diseases in the world. In this disease, usually the heart is unable to push the required amount of blood to other parts of the body to fulfill the normal functionalities of the body, and due to this, ultimately the heart failure occurs. The rate of heart disease in the United States is very high. The symptoms of heart disease include shortness of breath, weakness of physical body, swollen feet, and fatigue with related signs, for example, elevated jugular venous pressure and peripheral edema caused by functional cardiac or noncardiac abnormalities. The investigation techniques in early stages used to identify heart disease were complicated, and its resulting complexity is one of the major reasons that affect the standard of life. The heart disease diagnosis and treatment are very complex, especially in the developing countries, due to the rare availability of diagnostic apparatus and shortage of physicians and others resources which affect proper prediction and treatment of heart patients. The accurate and proper diagnosis of the heart disease risk in patients is necessary for reducing their associated risks of severe heart issues and improving security of heart. The European Society of Cardiology (ESC) reported that 26 million adults worldwide were diagnosed with heart disease and 3.6 million were diagnosed every year. Approximately 50% of heart disease people suffering from HD die within initial 1-2 years, and concerned costs of heart disease management are approximately 3% of health-care financial budget.
Thee invasive-based techniques to the diagnosing of heart disease are based on the analysis of the patient’s medical history, physical examination report, and analysis of concerned symptoms by medical experts. All these techniques mostly cause imprecise diagnosis and often delay in the diagnosis results due to human errors. Moreover, it is more expensive and computationally complex and takes time in assessments. 
In order to resolve these complexities in invasive-based diagnosing of heart disease, a noninvasive medical decision support system based on machine learning predictive models such as support vector machine (SVM), k-nearest neighbor (K-NN), artificial neural network (ANN), decision tree (DT), logistic regression (LR), AdaBoost (AB), Naive Bayes (NB), fuzzy logic (FL), and rough set, has been developed by various researchers and widely used for heart disease diagnosis, and due to these machine-learning-based expert medical decision system, the ratio of heart disease death decreased. 
Heart disease diagnosis through the machine-learning-based system has been reported in various research studies. 0e classification performance of different machine learning algorithms on Cleveland heart disease dataset has been reported in the literature review. Cleveland heart disease dataset is online available on the University of California Irvine (UCI) data mining repository which was used by various researchers. This is the dataset that has been used by various researchers for investigation of different classification issues related to the heart diseases through different machine learning classification algorithms.
Now-a-days death of the people is increased due to the heart diseases. Heart Attack is the main reason for the death of the people. There are so many diseases occur in the heart. There are so many reasons and factors which involve in the occurring of the heart diseases. The death of the male is more than the female due to the heart diseases because of the smoking and drinking habit of the male. The human life is mostly depending on the working functionality of the heart because heart supply the blood to the all the organs of the body.   Heart diseases consist the High blood pressure, Heart attack, Heart value disease and Heart failure etc. In case of the heart diseases it is important to predict the diseases in the early stages and take the treatment in early.
Machine learning algorithms play an essential and precise role in the prediction of heart disease. Advances in technology allow machine language to combine with Big Data tools to manage unstructured and exponentially growing data. Heart disease is seen as the world’s deadliest disease of human life. In particular, in this type of disease, the heart is not able to push the required amount of blood to the remaining organs of the human body to perform regular functions. Heart disease can be predicted based on various symptoms such as age, gender, heart rate, etc. and reduces the death rate of heart patients. Due to the increasing use of technology and data collection, we can now predict heart disease using machine learning algorithms.
